1. string
2. Number
3. Date
4. Number
5. Price

Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A database would be used to store a large amount of data that can be read and changed quickly.
We use text files to translate since computers store databases in a format that is not readable by humans.

Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

The difference between SQL and other programming languages like python, javascript, java, etc.
is that with those languages, you can do many cool things like make games, make programs to
help you with your taxes, and solve math problems. These are all general purpose languages. SQL
is very different from these languages. It does one thing, which defines queries. These queries
are similar to programs, but you don't use them to make video games or web servers. However
queries are really good at getting information from databases. Let's say you are making a website
like wikipedia. You need to have some kind of web server to respond to requests from the browser.
You can use Python to tackle this problem. When Python needs to figure out what article the user
is trying to view, it will look up where the article is in that database. It will use SQL to 
do that.

In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

Databases are organized like a table that has columns and rows. Each row contains data pertaining
to an entry while the columns define what the data represents. With the rowns and columns, table
cells are formed which each have a piece of data in it, which is able to be queried.

Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A table is used to hold a set or collection of data. A row is a horizontal collection of data in a table.
A column in a table is a vertical collection of data that define what the data represents. A a value 
is a piece of data contained in a table cell.

List three data types that can be used in a table.

Number, string, boolean

Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

a) This query selects the dates and each amount for each date from the payments table.

b) This query selects amounts that are greater than 500 from the payments table.

c) This query selects every column in the payments table whose payee is Mega Foods.

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data:

SELECT email, sign-up
FROM users
WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

email                      sign-up
deandred@bloc.io           02-20-2018

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu':

SELECT userid
FROM users
where email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

userid              
11345

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4:

SELECT *
FROM users 
WHERE userid = 4;

userid                name                    email                     signup
4                     Adrian Peterson         adrianpeterson@bloc.io    02-20-2018
